README.md, before:

# bunkerized-phpmyadmin

PHPMyAdmin Docker image focused on security.

It's based based on [bunkerized-nginx](https://github.com/bunkerity/bunkerized-nginx) that adds many security features : automatic Let's Encrypt, ModSecurity, fail2ban, PHP hardening, HTTP headers ...

Some PHPMyAdmin configuration (that resides inside conf.inc.php) can be easily tweaked using environment variables. If that's not enough, you can add your own configuration file.

# Table of contents

TODO

# Quickstart guide

## Basic usage

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

It will listen on standard HTTP port and will handle connections to the server accessible from mysql.server.com (you can also use an IP address).

## HTTPS support

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -e AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT=yes -e SERVER_NAME=phpmyadmin.mydomain.net -e REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS=yes -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server1.com' -e SERVER_2_host='mysql.server2.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

It will listen both standard HTTP and HTTPS ports and will handle connections to the servers accessible from mysql.server1.com and mysql.server2.com.

The following environment variables are inherited from [bunkerized-nginx](https://github.com/bunkerity/bunkerized-nginx) :
- AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT : automatic Let's Encrypt certificate generation and renewal
- SERVER_NAME : your domain name (mandatory for Let's Encrypt)
- REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS : all HTTP requests will be redirected to HTTPS

## More security

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -e AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT=yes -e SERVER_NAME=phpmyadmin.mydomain.net -e REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS=yes -e PMA_DIRECTORY=my-secret-directory CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PUBLIC_KEY=public-key-recaptcha-v3 CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY=prviate-key-recaptcha-v3 -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

- PMA_DIRECTORY : choose a subdirectory where PHPMyAdmin will be located (https://phpmyadmin.mydomain.net/my-secret-directory in this example)
- CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY AND CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY : the public and private keys given by Google to enable RECAPTCHA v3 on the login page

# Environment variables

## Inherited from bunkerized-nginx

All environment variables from bunkerized-nginx can be used. Feel free to do so.

## Servers

The following format is used to configure remote servers : SERVER_*index*_*config*=*value*. Here is an example :

```shell
docker run ... -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server1.com' -e SERVER_2_host='mysql.server2.com' -e SERVER_2_port=1337 -e SERVER_3_host='mysql.server3.com' -e SERVER_3_AllowRoot=false ... bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

This example will be translated to this PHP code inside the config.inc.php file :

```php
$cfg['Servers'][1]['host'] = 'mysql.server1.com';
$cfg['Servers'][2]['host'] = 'mysql.server2.com';
$cfg['Servers'][2]['port'] = 'mysql.server2.com';
$cfg['Servers'][3]['host'] = 'mysql.server3.com';
$cfg['Servers'][3]['AllowRoot'] = 'mysql.server3.com';
```

Every server connection settings listed in the documentation can be used (see https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#server-connection-settings).

## Security

`PMA_DIRECTORY`  
Values : *\<any valid directory name\>*  
Default value :  
Use this variable to put PHPMyAdmin inside a subdirectory (it will be accessible from http(s)://your.server.com/subdirectory). Can be usefull if your instance is accessible from Internet to avoid automatic scripts discovering your service.

`RESTRICT_PATHS`  
Values : *yes* | *no*  
Default value : *yes*  
If set to *yes*, clients won't be able to access files inside the following directories : libraries, templates and vendor.

`CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PUBLIC_KEY`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['CaptchaLoginPublicKey'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_CaptchaLoginPublicKey)  
Values : *\<the reCAPTCHA v3 public key\>* 
Default value :  
Set your public key if you want to enable reCAPTCHA v3 protection on the login page.

`CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['CaptchaLoginPublicKey'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_CaptchaLoginPublicKey)  
Values : *\<the reCAPTCHA v3 private key\>* 
Default value :  
Set your private key if you want to enable reCAPTCHA v3 protection on the login page.

`CONFIRM`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['Confirm'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_Confirm)
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
If set to *true*, users will be asked to confirm before deleting data.

`ALLOW_USER_DROP_DATABASE`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['AllowUserDropDatabase'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AllowUserDropDatabase)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *false*, users are not allowed to drop their databases within PHPMyAdmin.

## Information leak and privacy

`HIDE_PMA_VERSION`  
Values : *yes* / *no*  
Default value : *yes*  
If set to *yes*, the version of PHPMyAdmin will be set to 0.0.0. This is a 'hack' to prevent showing the real version to users. It hasn't been hardly tested yet to see if that breaks some features.

`REMOVE_FILES`  
Values : *\<list of files and directories to remove from PHPMyAdmin separated with space\>*  
Default value : *\*.md ChangeLog DCO LICENSE README RELEASE-DATE-\* composer.json composer.lock config.sample.inc.php doc examples package.json setup yarn.lock*
List of files and directories to remove inside the PHPMyAdmin folder.

`SEND_ERROR_REPORTS`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['SendErrorReports'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_SendErrorReports)  
Values : *ask* | *always* | *never*  
Default value : *never*  
The default policy for sending error reports to the PHPMyAdmin team.

`VERSION_CHECK`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['VersionCheck'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_VersionCheck)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will tells users if there is an update of PHPMyAdmin.

`SHOW_STATS`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowStats'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowStats)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show space usage and stats to the users.

`SHOW_SERVER_INFO`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowServerInfo'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowServerInfo)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show some information about the server to the users.

`SHOW_PHP_INFO`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowPhpInfo'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowPhpInfo)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show a phpinfo() to the users.

`SHOW_GIT_REVISION`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowGitRevision'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowGitRevision)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show the GIT revision to the users.

`USERPREFS_DISALLOW`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['UserprefsDisallow'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/fr/latest/config.html#cfg_UserprefsDisallow)  
Values : *\<list of strings separated with ','\>*  
Default value : *'VersionCheck', 'SendErrorReports', 'hide_db'*  
List of settings that users can't override through the "settings" tab.

## Arbitrary servers

`ALLOW_ARBITRARY_SERVER`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['AllowArbitraryServer'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AllowArbitraryServer)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, users can login to the servers of their choice. Use `ARBITRARY_SERVER_REGEXP` to restrict the authorized servers.

`ARBITRARY_SERVER_REGEXP`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ArbitraryServerRegexp'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ArbitraryServerRegexp)  
Values : *\<any valid regexp\>*  
Default value :  
When `ALLOW_ARBITRARY_SERVER` is set to *true*, you can restrict the servers that users can access.

## Cookie

`BLOWFISH_SECRET`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['blowfish_secret'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_blowfish_secret)  
Values : *\<32 characters\>* | random  
Default value : random  
The secret used to encrypt cookies, you can choose 32 chars or keep the default value *random* that will do it for you.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_RECALL`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieRecall'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieRecall)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to true, the previous login will appear on the connexion page.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_VALIDITY`
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieValidity'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieValidity) 
Values : *\<any positive integer\>*  
Default value :  *3600*  
The number of seconds that a cookie is valid.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_STORE`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieStore'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieStore)  
Values : *0* | *\<any positive integer\>*  
Default value : *0*
The number of seconds to keep the cookie inside the browser. *0* means the cookie will only be kept for the current session.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_DELETE_ALL`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieDeleteAll'\](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieDeleteAll)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
Is set to *true*, logout from one server will also delete the cookies for the other servers.

## Configuration storage

`ZERO_CONF`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ZeroConf'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AuthLog)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, user will be able to create a configuration storage himself using an existing database.

`PMA_NO_RELATION_DISABLE_WARNING`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['PmaNoRelation_DisableWarning'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_PmaNoRelation_DisableWarning)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
If set to *true*, warnings about configuration storage will not be printed.

## All servers

*todo*

# Custom configuration file

*todo*

# TODO
- fail2ban

Commit message:

some new features and fixes

README.md, after:

# bunkerized-phpmyadmin

PHPMyAdmin Docker image focused on security.

It's based based on [bunkerized-nginx](https://github.com/bunkerity/bunkerized-nginx) that adds many security features : automatic Let's Encrypt, ModSecurity, fail2ban, PHP hardening, HTTP headers ...

On top of that, bunkerized-phpmyadmin adds the following features :
- Choose a subdirectory of your choice to make it harder to find your PHPMyAdmin (e.g. https://your.server.com/hidden-directory-hard-to-guess)
- Hide the version number of PHPMyAdmin
- Allow access to only the needed files (css, js, php, ...)
- Delete unneeded files and folders (setup, doc, ...)
- Many security-related configs already set by default
- Easy to configure with environment variables
- Bring your own configuration for custom needs

# Table of contents

TODO

# Quickstart guide

## Basic usage

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

It will listen on standard HTTP port and will handle connections to the server accessible from mysql.server.com (you can also use an IP address).

## HTTPS support

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -e AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT=yes -e SERVER_NAME=phpmyadmin.mydomain.net -e REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS=yes -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server1.com' -e SERVER_2_host='mysql.server2.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

It will listen both standard HTTP and HTTPS ports and will handle connections to the servers accessible from mysql.server1.com and mysql.server2.com.

The following environment variables are inherited from [bunkerized-nginx](https://github.com/bunkerity/bunkerized-nginx) :
- AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT : automatic Let's Encrypt certificate generation and renewal
- SERVER_NAME : your domain name (mandatory for Let's Encrypt)
- REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS : all HTTP requests will be redirected to HTTPS

## More security

```shell
docker run -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -e AUTO_LETS_ENCRYPT=yes -e SERVER_NAME=phpmyadmin.mydomain.net -e REDIRECT_HTTP_TO_HTTPS=yes -e PMA_DIRECTORY=my-secret-directory CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PUBLIC_KEY=public-key-recaptcha-v3 CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY=prviate-key-recaptcha-v3 -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server.com' bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

- PMA_DIRECTORY : choose a subdirectory where PHPMyAdmin will be located (https://phpmyadmin.mydomain.net/my-secret-directory in this example)
- CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY AND CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY : the public and private keys given by Google to enable RECAPTCHA v3 on the login page

# Environment variables

## Inherited from bunkerized-nginx

All environment variables from bunkerized-nginx can be used. Feel free to do so.

## Servers

The following format is used to configure remote servers : SERVER_*index*_*config*=*value*. Here is an example :

```shell
docker run ... -e SERVER_1_host='mysql.server1.com' -e SERVER_2_host='mysql.server2.com' -e SERVER_2_port=1337 -e SERVER_3_host='mysql.server3.com' -e SERVER_3_AllowRoot=false ... bunkerity/bunkerized-phpmyadmin
```

This example will be translated to this PHP code inside the config.inc.php file :

```php
$cfg['Servers'][1]['host'] = 'mysql.server1.com';
$cfg['Servers'][2]['host'] = 'mysql.server2.com';
$cfg['Servers'][2]['port'] = 'mysql.server2.com';
$cfg['Servers'][3]['host'] = 'mysql.server3.com';
$cfg['Servers'][3]['AllowRoot'] = 'mysql.server3.com';
```

Every server connection settings listed in the documentation can be used (see https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#server-connection-settings).

## Security

`PMA_DIRECTORY`  
Values : *\<any valid directory name\>*  
Default value :  
Use this variable to put PHPMyAdmin inside a subdirectory (it will be accessible from http(s)://your.server.com/subdirectory). Can be usefull if your instance is accessible from Internet to avoid automatic scripts discovering your service.

`RESTRICT_PATHS`  
Values : *yes* | *no*  
Default value : *yes*  
If set to *yes*, clients won't be able to access files inside the following directories : libraries, locale, templates and vendor.

`MODSECURITY_CRS_EXCLUSIONS`  
Values : *yes* | *no*  
Default value : *yes*  
ModSecurity with OWASP Core Rule Set are enabled by default (inherited from bunkerity/bunkerized-nginx). If set to *yes*, will add some exclusions to CRS rules to avoid some false positives rules.

`CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PUBLIC_KEY`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['CaptchaLoginPublicKey'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_CaptchaLoginPublicKey)  
Values : *\<the reCAPTCHA v3 public key\>* 
Default value :  
Set your public key if you want to enable reCAPTCHA v3 protection on the login page.

`CAPTCHA_LOGIN_PRIVATE_KEY`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['CaptchaLoginPublicKey'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_CaptchaLoginPublicKey)  
Values : *\<the reCAPTCHA v3 private key\>* 
Default value :  
Set your private key if you want to enable reCAPTCHA v3 protection on the login page.

`CONFIRM`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['Confirm'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_Confirm)
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
If set to *true*, users will be asked to confirm before deleting data.

`ALLOW_USER_DROP_DATABASE`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['AllowUserDropDatabase'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AllowUserDropDatabase)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *false*, users are not allowed to drop their databases within PHPMyAdmin.

## Information leak and privacy

`HIDE_PMA_VERSION`  
Values : *yes* / *no*  
Default value : *yes*  
If set to *yes*, the version of PHPMyAdmin will be set to 0.0.0. This is a 'hack' to prevent showing the real version to users. It hasn't been hardly tested yet to see if that breaks some features.

`REMOVE_FILES`  
Values : *\<list of files and directories to remove from PHPMyAdmin separated with space\>*  
Default value : *setup \*.md ChangeLog DCO LICENSE README RELEASE-DATE-\* composer.json composer.lock config.sample.inc.php doc examples package.json setup yarn.lock*
List of files and directories to remove inside the PHPMyAdmin folder.

`SEND_ERROR_REPORTS`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['SendErrorReports'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_SendErrorReports)  
Values : *ask* | *always* | *never*  
Default value : *never*  
The default policy for sending error reports to the PHPMyAdmin team.

`VERSION_CHECK`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['VersionCheck'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_VersionCheck)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will tells users if there is an update of PHPMyAdmin.

`SHOW_STATS`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowStats'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowStats)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show space usage and stats to the users.

`SHOW_SERVER_INFO`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowServerInfo'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowServerInfo)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show some information about the server to the users.

`SHOW_PHP_INFO`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowPhpInfo'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowPhpInfo)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show a phpinfo() to the users.

`SHOW_GIT_REVISION`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ShowGitRevision'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ShowGitRevision)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, will show the GIT revision to the users.

`USERPREFS_DISALLOW`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['UserprefsDisallow'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/fr/latest/config.html#cfg_UserprefsDisallow)  
Values : *\<list of strings separated with ','\>*  
Default value : *'VersionCheck', 'SendErrorReports', 'hide_db'*  
List of settings that users can't override through the "settings" tab.

## Arbitrary servers

`ALLOW_ARBITRARY_SERVER`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['AllowArbitraryServer'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AllowArbitraryServer)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, users can login to the servers of their choice. Use `ARBITRARY_SERVER_REGEXP` to restrict the authorized servers.

`ARBITRARY_SERVER_REGEXP`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ArbitraryServerRegexp'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_ArbitraryServerRegexp)  
Values : *\<any valid regexp\>*  
Default value :  
When `ALLOW_ARBITRARY_SERVER` is set to *true*, you can restrict the servers that users can access.

## Cookie

`BLOWFISH_SECRET`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['blowfish_secret'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_blowfish_secret)  
Values : *\<32 characters\>* | random  
Default value : random  
The secret used to encrypt cookies, you can choose 32 chars or keep the default value *random* that will do it for you.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_RECALL`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieRecall'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieRecall)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to true, the previous login will appear on the connexion page.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_VALIDITY`
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieValidity'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieValidity) 
Values : *\<any positive integer\>*  
Default value :  *3600*  
The number of seconds that a cookie is valid.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_STORE`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieStore'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieStore)  
Values : *0* | *\<any positive integer\>*  
Default value : *0*
The number of seconds to keep the cookie inside the browser. *0* means the cookie will only be kept for the current session.

`LOGIN_COOKIE_DELETE_ALL`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['LoginCookieDeleteAll'\](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_LoginCookieDeleteAll)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
Is set to *true*, logout from one server will also delete the cookies for the other servers.

## Configuration storage

`ZERO_CONF`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['ZeroConf'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_AuthLog)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *false*  
If set to *true*, user will be able to create a configuration storage himself using an existing database.

`PMA_NO_RELATION_DISABLE_WARNING`  
PMA setting : [$cfg\['PmaNoRelation_DisableWarning'\]](https://docs.phpmyadmin.net/en/latest/config.html#cfg_PmaNoRelation_DisableWarning)  
Values : *true* | *false*  
Default value : *true*  
If set to *true*, warnings about configuration storage will not be printed.

## All servers

*todo*

# Custom configuration file

*todo*

# TODO
- fail2ban
